# Groovy 2 additional overloads
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods each java.lang.Iterable groovy.lang.Closure
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods each java.util.Collection groovy.lang.Closure
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods each java.util.Iterator groovy.lang.Closure
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods each java.util.List groovy.lang.Closure
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods each java.util.Map groovy.lang.Closure
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods each java.util.Set groovy.lang.Closure
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods each java.util.SortedSet groovy.lang.Closure
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods leftShift java.util.List java.lang.Object
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods plus java.lang.Iterable java.lang.Iterable
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods plus java.lang.Iterable java.lang.Object
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods plus java.util.List java.lang.Iterable
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods plus java.util.List java.lang.Object
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods plus java.util.List java.util.Collection
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods plus java.util.Set java.lang.Iterable
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods plus java.util.Set java.lang.Object
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods plus java.util.Set java.util.Collection
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods plus java.util.SortedSet java.lang.Iterable
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods plus java.util.SortedSet java.lang.Object
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods plus java.util.SortedSet java.util.Collection

staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods unique java.util.List
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods leftShift java.util.Map java.util.Map
staticMethod org.codehaus.groovy.runtime.DefaultGroovyMethods plus java.util.Map java.util.Map
